You'll now see the
overall structure of
the algorithm you'll be
implementing this week.
You'll see how you
can initialize
your word vectors to
predict new word vectors.
Let's dive in and see
how you can do this.
I'll start with the
overall process for
machine learning model-based
word embeddings,
and then move on to how it's
instantiated for the
continuous bag-of-words model.
As a reminder, to
create word embeddings,
you need a corpus,
and a machine
learning model that
performs a learning task.
One by-product of
the learning task
is a set of word embeddings.
You also need a way to
transform the corpus into
a representation that is
suited to the machine
learning model.
In the case of the continuous
bag-of-words model,
the objective of the
task is to predict
a missing word based on
the surrounding words.
The rationale is that if
two unique words
are both frequently
surrounded by a similar sets of
words when used in
various sentences,
then those two words tend to
be related in their meaning.
Another way to say this is that
they are related semantically.
For example, in the sentence,
the little something is barking,
with a large enough corpus,
the model will learn
to predict that
the missing word is
related to dogs,
such as the word dog itself,
or puppy, hound,
terrier, and so on.
The model will end up
learning the meaning
of words based on
their contexts.
How do you use the
corpus to create
training data for
the prediction task?
Let's say that the
corpus is the sentence,
I am happy because I'm learning,
and you can ignore the
punctuation for now.
For a given word of
a corpus, happy,
for example, which I'll
call the center word,
I will define the context
words as forwards,
the two words before
the center word,
and the towards after it,
and I'll note this
as C equals 2,
for the two words
before or after.
Where C is called the half
size of the contexts,
it is a hyperparameter
of the model.
You could use another
number of words.
This is just an example.
Here, the context words
for the center word
happy are I am because I.
Let's also define the
window as the count
of the center word plus
the context words.
Here, the size of the
window is equal to
one center word plus two
context words before,
plus two contexts words after,
which equals to five.
To train the model,
you will need a
sets of examples,
and each example will be made of
context words and the center
word to be predicted.
In this first example,
the window is, I am
happy because I,
and the model will
take the context words
I am because I,
and should predict the
center word, happy.
You can now slide the
window by one word,
and the next training
example that you have is,
I'm happy something I am.
The input to the model
will be the context words,
I'm happy I am,
and the target center word,
to predict is because.
Sliding the window by one again,
the model will take
happy because I'm
learning and should
predict the target I.
This is basically how the
continuous bag-of-words
model works.
As you can see in the
model architecture
from the original paper,
context words as inputs,
and center words as outputs.
To recap, you just learned how
the continuous bag-of-words
model broadly works.
For the rest of the week,
you'll focus on preparing
a training data-set,
starting from a corpus,
and then you'll dive into the
math powering the models.
To recap, in a continuous
bag-of-words model,
you try to predict
the center word using
the context words or
the surrounding words,
and as a byproduct
of the algorithm,
you end up getting
the word embeddings.
In the next videos,
we will show you how
this actually works.